My name is John Blackthorne!
I'm English. pilot
of the Erasmus.
a Dutch merchant vessel.
Lies! You're a pirate!
They don't know
about us. do they?
The great Lord Yoshii
Toranaga wants to meet you.
What does he want with me?
Play with your balls.
maybe. How should I know?
Hmm.
This English pilot...
how do you mean
he is obscene?
You know the sort.
Uh. dirty. Diseased.
And he's got a filthy mouth.
He's like a back-passage
whore of the 15th rank.
Know what I mean.
Father-Visitor?
These journals are
proof of his depravity.
Look. Your Eminence.
Sacked. slaughtered and
pillaged his way through Manila.
He's a real piece of work.
that one. Brutal savage.
So we show these
to the Japanese.
And he will be
hanged for piracy.
I'm afraid it may
not be so simple.
Despite the discord in Osaka.
Toranaga is still president
of foreign relations.
He's a thorough man.
I fear he'll want a complete
translation of this journal.
Perhaps a bit too complete.
I'll thank you to leave now.
So you know. this. uh. pirate
he's not a man to leave
his fate with God.
I suggest you don't. either.
So he knows everything
about Macao.
Christ as my witness
with these bushos on
the verge of open war.
the last thing we
need is any discussion
of past entanglements.
Well. then let us be
grateful our visitor
- does not speak Japanese.
- Hm.
I'm going to the castle where
Toranaga has been sequestered.
I'm to translate for
him this afternoon.
Martin.
These are critical
times for the mission.
You will see to it this
man is not a problem.
Shit.
Good morning.
My name is Martin Alvito
of the Society of Jesus.
You must be the Anjin.
- What does that mean?
- It means "pilot."
The way Tsuji means
"translator" for me.
You are in the court of
Lord Yoshii Toranaga.
and I am the interpreter
to the Council of Regents.
Oh. good. so you'll be
able to twist my words
in your Portuguese favor.
What did you just say?
Exactly what you said.
I will translate
without prejudice.
Well. seeing as you're
so bloody honest.
perhaps you would
do me the courtesy
of telling him we are enemies.
Tell him yourself.
The Japanese word
for "enemy" is teki.
Gesture at me and say the word.
He will understand.
I may be your enemy.
John Blackthorne of the Erasmus.
but I am not your assassin.
That you will do yourself.
Hm.
He wants to know
why we are enemies.
Because our
countries are at war.
Tell him where you're from.
England.
It's an island kingdom.
1.000 miles north of Portugal.
Why are you at war
with my kingdom?
Because England refuses to
be intimidated by Catholics.
You are not Catholic?
There are two
Christian religions.
Protestant and Catholic.
We English are Protestant.
Yes.
Though I won't know
for sure till I'm dead.
I am not a pirate.
My ship contains
letters of marque
from the rulers of a
nation called Holland.
authorizing us to
trade in all seas.
And to defend ourselves against
anyone who dare stop us.
I cannot conceive of being
an enemy to you. Lord.
Then I would commend
my soul to God.
For surely I would die
by the hand of a teki
like you.
Move.
This is Lord General Ishido.
Toranaga's chief rival.
If you value your life.
do not say a word.
Bow. Fast.
You are to be detained.
- For how long?
- I do not know. Anjin.
But I will pray for your soul.
What have you told
him. you bastard?
This is fucking great.
There's clearly been some
sort of misunderstanding.
Where are you taking me?
If I've committed
some sort of offense.
I apologize. Apolo...
Do any of you people understand
a damn word I'm saying?
You. up front... where
are you taking me?
No. I protest this treatment!
I'm a guest of your
lord. not a prisoner.
Oh. fuck.
This is a mistake!
Amen.
The señor is real?
Who are you?
You are safe here.
Children of my flock.
Persecuted for their faith.
You speak Portuguese yet?
Not Portuguese.
Speak the truth before God.
I'm English.
The Jesuits put
you here too. then?
Jesuits put you here?
Oh.
You should let me
give you absolution.
Are these men all
marked for death?
Death is the only
punishment here.
Father. there's
been a mistake. I...
I'm a guest of Lord Toranaga.
I'm not meant to be here.
Toranaga brought you to Osaka?
Yes.
And I must be allowed to leave.
Dear God. you're a
child in the wilderness.
You don't know their games.
Toranaga is a prisoner
in Osaka castle.
Isolated by his rivals on
the Council of Regents.
There's Sugiyama. descended from
the richest samurai
family in Japan.
Ohno. a feared warrior.
whose affliction
of leprosy led him into
the arms of the Church.
And Kiyama. a man
whose faith in Christ
is guided only by his
greed and ambition.
All of them are in
the palm of Ishido.
caretaker of the castle.
Any day now. these men
will vote on Toranaga's demise.
Hear me. my son.
I alone will tell you the truth.
If Toranaga claimed
you as an ally.
you'll never leave Japan alive.
Ah.
Toranaga was born Minowara.
A name that carries
great weight in Japan.
For centuries. his ancestors
dominated this country.
carrying with them
a divine mandate.
Mandate?
A title. revered
through the ages.
The ultimate rank a
mortal can achieve.
Shogun.
And Toranaga... does
he seek this title?
Who knows what lurks in
the heart of a Minowara.
Another soul for every hour
of the day.
It's nothing for
you to fear now.
You'll die a martyr.
On the cross. perhaps.
I'm sorry. Father. I
didn't come all this way
around the world just
to die on a cross.
Then why did you?
You came here to wage war.
I would have stood by you.
I came here in '72.
clutching my rosary.
visions of the
souls I would save.
Then I learned the true
tenets of the cloth:
Silk. gold and guns.
These Jesuits care
nothing for their souls.
They've made an idol of
that cursed Black Ship.
That's how they dominate trade.
The Chinese hate Japan.
So all trade goes
through the Portuguese.
It's usury.
The late Taiko even tried
to put a stop to it.
but the Church had
incited the rebellion.
smuggled guns from that
secret base in Macao.
Macao.
Mm.
I met a man who said he'd
been to that fortress.
said there were
Japanese soldiers
hundreds of them
all converted to Catholicism.
You're telling me the
lords here don't know?
It's too late for that now.
You don't understand.
I must tell them.
That's my way out.
You can't play their game.
Their rules are too opaque.
their hearts too guarded.
You don't know me.
I've known a thousand of you.
How many different ways I can
tell you I don't give a shit?
Hurry up. let's go!
Fuck!
Ugh.
Come on.
Let's go.
You and Carlos have to
get your stories straight.
He told me you had the
manifest. Fuck off.
On your way to the
castle. Father?
Good morning. Captain.
As you know...
I've had no word.
As soon as Toranaga calls on me
to permit the Black
Ship to depart.
you'll be the first to know.
That's what I'm
worried about. see.
Hearing the old monkey's
not long for this world.
The Church is doing all it can
to keep your business
running on time.
You mean our business.
Cock-sucking prig.
And which is your
stronger tongue. now...
Portuguese or Latin?
I have more occasion
to practice Portuguese.
But it comes slowly.
To this day. you
remain my best pupil.
Though I must admit my surprise.
Seeing you yesterday.
Toranaga involving
you in his affairs.
I do not wish to
translate anymore.
I do not like this man.
the way he speaks to you.
You have always
had good instincts
about those with bad intentions.
Lady Maria.
The dark thoughts you have
confessed to me in the past.
Are they still with you?
I trust you know I pray for you.
On this matter and others.
Especially with the heretic.
I've read his journals.
Whatever your heart
tells you about him
he is guilty of worse.
Ah...
Oh...
Your confession.
say it quickly.
No. this can't be.
I'm not supposed to die here.
The Blessed Virgin is
watching over you now.
Confess before me. all
sins past and present.
You go with your God. Father.
Dear Lord.
forgive me my pride.
Let this not be my end.
I beg you.
Oh?
Ah.
Toranaga.
Good morning. señor.
I am to be your
interpreter for today.
You speak Portuguese?
It is my honor to
learn the language
of my Christian teachers.
Catholic teachers.
I serve Yoshii Toranaga-sama.
My name is Toda Mariko.
John Blackthorne.
And you should know
I'm not Catholic.
My lord would like to
say that he is sorry
for the time you
spent in prison.
I'm grateful to be alive.
He asks about your country.
Your rulers and customs.
Just this morning. I was
set for death and.
and now. um...
I know I am considered
an enemy. in your country.
But assure you
my queen is wise.
And thoughtful.
And would want to be your ally.
My master asks for you to
draw a map of the world.
Oh.
Thank you.
Um...
This is the limit
of what I know.
The earth is round.
Like a fruit.
Uh. Japan is here.
My country. England
is on the other
side of the world.
We came by way of
Magellan's Pass.
We are the first
outsiders to use it
because the Spanish
and the Portuguese
kept it secret.
And for us. it was
safer to sail this way.
Because we had to
avoid a Portuguese base
in Macao.
It employs Japanese mercenaries.
I'm told you call them Ronin.
A secret Catholic fortress.
used for gunrunning.
Employed during an
uprising some years ago.
My master asks that.
later. you write this map
and mark the Portuguese bases.
If I may. I will explain now.
This is the way Portugal and
Spain carved up the New World.
70 years ago. they
signed a treaty
that split undiscovered
land between them.
Your country falls
into the Portuguese half.
So it belongs to them.
I'm sorry. sir. but...
I assure you their
arrogance is unbelievable.
Please tell him it's written
into legal documents.
Each Spanish and Portuguese
king has the right to lay claim
to any non-Catholic
land they discover
and to replace its government
with Catholic rule.
This is a lie.
No.
Do you swear by your God?
Yes. I do.
He asks what you seek here.
To vanquish our common enemies.
My master says you
should not war against
the Portuguese in Japan.
You are outnumbered.
It is hopeless.
Unless I win.
His personal quarters.
This is a great honor
I hope you will enjoy.
Is that his?
That battle armor
was ordered specially
by Toranaga-sama after
he saw it in a dream.
Its style goes back
many generations.
All the way to the
Minowara Shogunate.
Shogun.
I wanted to thank you
for translating so honestly
on my behalf today.
No thanks are necessary.
My efforts are in
service of my lord.
How long have you
spoken Portuguese?
14 years.
As long as I've
been a Christian.
Well. you speak very well.
Hm.
These women can assist you
in preparation for your bath.
Uh. thank you. but...
I've already bathed.
Oh. In the prison?
No. in the village.
But that was some time ago.
What. two
two baths in a week?
What. do you want me
to catch the flux?
Wait. Mariko.
I know you hold these
priests in high regard.
but I beg you to
consider their motives.
Your lord is in danger.
And I have a ship.
I would advise against
speaking out of turn.
Yes.
Oh. and
you will please address
me as Mariko-sama.
Martin Alvito has
just received word
from Toranaga.
He's denied our departure
papers for the Black Ship.
This God-cursed heretic
doesn't even have the decency
to ruin us slowly.
Let this be my burden. Father.
No!
Captioned by Media Access
Group at WGBH access.wgbh.org.
He has made you hatamoto.
which is a very great honor.
We should not be seen together.
It is war.